README.md, before:

<img alt="react-snaplist-carousel" src="readme/snaplist.png?raw=true" width="180px" />

# react-snaplist-carousel

A modern way to do a classic thing.

- Less than **3K gzipped** size.
- Made 100% in React, no porting.
- No dependencies.
- Typescript ready.
- Using it in production.
- Using native browser snap option.
- No magic, you get the control thanks to the hooks.

# Demo

<p>
  <img alt="react-snaplist-carousel" src="readme/horizontal.gif?raw=true" width="33%" />
  <img alt="react-snaplist-carousel" src="readme/vertical.gif?raw=true" width="33%" />
  <img alt="react-snaplist-carousel" src="readme/list.gif?raw=true" width="33%" /> 
</p>
<p>
  <a href="https://luispuig.github.io/react-snaplist-carousel/" target="_blank">
    LIVE DEMO
  </a>
</p>

## Install

```bash
npm install --save react-snaplist-carousel
```

```tsx
import {
  SnapList,
  SnapItem,
  useVisibleElements,
  useScroll,
} from 'react-snaplist-carousel';
```

## Basic Example

```tsx
import * as React from 'react';

import { SnapList, SnapItem } from 'react-snaplist-carousel';

const MyItem = ({ children }) => (
  <div style={{ width: '70vw', height: 200, background: '#cccccc' }}>
    {children}
  </div>
);

export const App = () => (
  <SnapList>
    <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
      <MyItem>Item 0</MyItem>
    </SnapItem>
    <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
      <MyItem>Item 1</MyItem>
    </SnapItem>
    <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
      <MyItem>Item 2</MyItem>
    </SnapItem>
    <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
      <MyItem>Item 3</MyItem>
    </SnapItem>
    <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
      <MyItem>Item 4</MyItem>
    </SnapItem>
  </SnapList>
);
```

## Advanced Example

```tsx
import React, { useRef } from 'react';

import {
  SnapList,
  SnapItem,
  useVisibleElements,
  useScroll,
  useDragToScroll,
  isTouchDevice,
} from 'react-snaplist-carousel';

const MyItem = ({ onClick, children, visible }) => (
  <div
    style={{
      width: '60vw',
      height: 200,
      background: visible ? '#bce6fe' : '#cccccc',
      cursor: visible ? 'default' : 'pointer',
    }}
    onClick={onClick}
  >
    {children}
  </div>
);

export const App = () => {
  const snapList = useRef(null);

  const visible = useVisibleElements(
    { debounce: 10, ref: snapList },
    ([element]) => element,
  );
  const goToSnapItem = useScroll({ ref: snapList });
  const isDragging = useDragToScroll({ ref: snapList });

  return (
    <SnapList ref={snapList}>
      <SnapItem margin={{ left: '20vw', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
        <MyItem onClick={() => goToSnapItem(0)} visible={visible === 0}>
          Item 0
        </MyItem>
      </SnapItem>
      <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
        <MyItem onClick={() => goToSnapItem(1)} visible={visible === 1}>
          Item 1
        </MyItem>
      </SnapItem>
      <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
        <MyItem onClick={() => goToSnapItem(2)} visible={visible === 2}>
          Item 2
        </MyItem>
      </SnapItem>
      <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
        <MyItem onClick={() => goToSnapItem(3)} visible={visible === 3}>
          Item 3
        </MyItem>
      </SnapItem>
      <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '20vw' }} snapAlign="center">
        <MyItem onClick={() => goToSnapItem(4)} visible={visible === 4}>
          Item 4
        </MyItem>
      </SnapItem>
    </SnapList>
  );
};
```

## Options

### SnapList

- `direction` { horizontal | vertical }: Scroll direction. \*
- `disableScroll` { boolean | undefined }: Disable the native scroll on swipe or mouse wheel.
- `width` { string | undefined }: Width CSS property
- `height` { string | undefined }: Height CSS property
- `scrollPadding` { {
  top?: string;
  right?: string;
  bottom?: string;
  left?: string;
  } | undefined }: Use this to configure the space to see from the previous/next hidden element. See <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/scroll-padding" target="_blank">scroll-padding</a> for more information
- `ref` { React.RefObject\<HTMLDivElement\> | undefined }: The React.ref to the element required by the hooks.
- `className` { string | undefined }: 🚑Please, use this only in case of emergency. It allows you to add/overwrite/extend all the CSS properties. If you need this, please consider opening an issue or contribute with a PR to cover your use case.

\* _Required fields_

### SnapItem

- `snapAlign` { start | center | end | none }: The box’s snap position when the scroll stops. See <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/scroll-snap-align" target="_blank">scroll-snap-align</a> for more information \*
- `disableScroll` { boolean | undefined }: Avoid the scroll to "pass over" possible snap positions. See <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/scroll-snap-stop" target="_blank">scroll-snap-stop</a> for more information
- `width` { string | undefined }: Width CSS property
- `height` { string | undefined }: Height CSS property
- `margin` { {
  top?: string;
  right?: string;
  bottom?: string;
  left?: string;
  } | undefined }: The margin is used to set the separation between the items. You can use different margin for the first and last item to get better results.
- `className` { string | undefined }: 🚑Please, use this only in case of emergency. It allows you to add/overwrite/extend all the CSS properties. If you need this, please consider opening an issue or contribute with a PR to cover your use case.

\* _Required fields_

### useScroll

```jsx
const snapList = useRef(null);
const goToElement = useScroll({ ref: snapList });

return (
  <SnapList ref={snapList}>
    <SnapItem snapAlign="left">
      <div onClick={() => goTo(0)}>Item 0</div>
    </SnapItem>
    <SnapItem snapAlign="left">
      <div onClick={() => goTo(1)}>Item 1</div>
    </SnapItem>
  </SnapList>
);
```

Response

- A function `(element:number) => void` to scroll to the element.

Arguments

- `ref`: { React.RefObject\<HTMLDivElement\> } \*

\* _Required fields_

### useVisibleElements

```jsx
const snapList = useRef(null);
const selected = useVisibleElements(
  { ref: snapList, debounce: 10 },
  elements => elements[0],
);
const goToElement = useScroll({ ref: snapList });

return (
  <SnapList ref={snapList}>
    <SnapItem snapAlign="left">
      <div
        onClick={() => goToElement(0)}
        style={{
          backgroundColor: selected === 0 ? 'papayawhip' : null,
        }}
      >
        Item 0
      </div>
    </SnapItem>
    <SnapItem snapAlign="left">
      <div
        onClick={() => goToElement(1)}
        style={{
          backgroundColor: selected === 1 ? 'papayawhip' : null,
        }}
      >
        Item 1
      </div>
    </SnapItem>
  </SnapList>
);
```

Arguments

- `ref`: { React.RefObject\<HTMLDivElement\> } \*
- `debounce`: { number }. Optional (default 10). The time that the scroll is stopped before firing the visible elements check.
- `selectorFunction`: { (element:number[], elementInCenter: number | null) => any }. This selector gets an array of the visible elements as an argument and the return value will be returned by the useVisibleElements. Use this function to add some logic like select only the first one, calculate if there hidden elements before or later, etc... \*

\* _Required fields_

Tip

Use many times `useVisibleElements` hook with different `debounce` values for different purposes. For instance with a SnapList to select one option, one with debounce 10 for the slider dots animation or the selected option background and another one with debounce 100 to fire a select sideEffect.

### useDragToScroll

> Thanks <a href="https://github.com/danieljb" target="_blank">@danieljb</a> for the contribution

```jsx
const snapList = useRef(null);
const selected = useVisibleElements(
  { ref: snapList, debounce: 10 },
  elements => elements[0],
);

const isDragging = useDragToScroll({ref: snapList, disable: false});

return (
  <>
  <p>{isDragging ? 'Dragging': 'No dragging}</p>
  <SnapList ref={snapList}>
    <SnapItem snapAlign="left">
      <div
        onClick={() => goToElement(0)}
        style={{
          backgroundColor: selected === 0 ? 'papayawhip' : null,
        }}
      >
        Item 0
      </div>
    </SnapItem>
    <SnapItem snapAlign="left">
      <div
        onClick={() => goToElement(1)}
        style={{
          backgroundColor: selected === 1 ? 'papayawhip' : null,
        }}
      >
        Item 1
      </div>
    </SnapItem>
  </SnapList>
  </p>
);
```

Arguments

- `ref`: { React.RefObject\<HTMLDivElement\> } \*
- `disable`: { booleal }. Optional (default false). The hook will be auto-disabled on touch devices but you can force it using this option.

\* _Required fields_

### isTouchDevice

This an internal util function used by `useDragToScroll` that can be useful for you. You can use it to modify your UI depending on the device. For example, you can show next/previous arrows only on no touch devices.

## Do you want to contribute?

- You can give a star to the project to help with the reputation
- You can share it with your colleagues.
- You can fork the repository and make your PR contribution.
- You can explore using IntersectionObserver for the useVisible hook.
- You can explore with better scrollTo polyfills.
- You can create usefull extra elements like Dots, Thumbnails, Progress or Arrows.
- You can create a new demo example, sky is the limit!
- Yes, you can.

## License

MIT © [luispuig](https://github.com/luispuig)

Commit message:

Add Changelog secion in readme.md

README.md, after:

<img alt="react-snaplist-carousel" src="readme/snaplist.png?raw=true" width="180px" />

# react-snaplist-carousel

A modern way to do a classic thing.

- Less than **3K gzipped** size.
- Made 100% in React, no porting.
- No dependencies.
- Typescript ready.
- Using it in production.
- Using native browser snap option.
- No magic, you get the control thanks to the hooks.

# Demo

<p>
  <img alt="react-snaplist-carousel" src="readme/horizontal.gif?raw=true" width="33%" />
  <img alt="react-snaplist-carousel" src="readme/vertical.gif?raw=true" width="33%" />
  <img alt="react-snaplist-carousel" src="readme/list.gif?raw=true" width="33%" /> 
</p>
<p>
  <a href="https://luispuig.github.io/react-snaplist-carousel/" target="_blank">
    LIVE DEMO
  </a>
</p>

## Install

```bash
npm install --save react-snaplist-carousel
```

```tsx
import {
  SnapList,
  SnapItem,
  useVisibleElements,
  useScroll,
} from 'react-snaplist-carousel';
```

## Basic Example

```tsx
import * as React from 'react';

import { SnapList, SnapItem } from 'react-snaplist-carousel';

const MyItem = ({ children }) => (
  <div style={{ width: '70vw', height: 200, background: '#cccccc' }}>
    {children}
  </div>
);

export const App = () => (
  <SnapList>
    <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
      <MyItem>Item 0</MyItem>
    </SnapItem>
    <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
      <MyItem>Item 1</MyItem>
    </SnapItem>
    <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
      <MyItem>Item 2</MyItem>
    </SnapItem>
    <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
      <MyItem>Item 3</MyItem>
    </SnapItem>
    <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
      <MyItem>Item 4</MyItem>
    </SnapItem>
  </SnapList>
);
```

## Advanced Example

```tsx
import React, { useRef } from 'react';

import {
  SnapList,
  SnapItem,
  useVisibleElements,
  useScroll,
  useDragToScroll,
  isTouchDevice,
} from 'react-snaplist-carousel';

const MyItem = ({ onClick, children, visible }) => (
  <div
    style={{
      width: '60vw',
      height: 200,
      background: visible ? '#bce6fe' : '#cccccc',
      cursor: visible ? 'default' : 'pointer',
    }}
    onClick={onClick}
  >
    {children}
  </div>
);

export const App = () => {
  const snapList = useRef(null);

  const visible = useVisibleElements(
    { debounce: 10, ref: snapList },
    ([element]) => element,
  );
  const goToSnapItem = useScroll({ ref: snapList });
  const isDragging = useDragToScroll({ ref: snapList });

  return (
    <SnapList ref={snapList}>
      <SnapItem margin={{ left: '20vw', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
        <MyItem onClick={() => goToSnapItem(0)} visible={visible === 0}>
          Item 0
        </MyItem>
      </SnapItem>
      <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
        <MyItem onClick={() => goToSnapItem(1)} visible={visible === 1}>
          Item 1
        </MyItem>
      </SnapItem>
      <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
        <MyItem onClick={() => goToSnapItem(2)} visible={visible === 2}>
          Item 2
        </MyItem>
      </SnapItem>
      <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '15px' }} snapAlign="center">
        <MyItem onClick={() => goToSnapItem(3)} visible={visible === 3}>
          Item 3
        </MyItem>
      </SnapItem>
      <SnapItem margin={{ left: '15px', right: '20vw' }} snapAlign="center">
        <MyItem onClick={() => goToSnapItem(4)} visible={visible === 4}>
          Item 4
        </MyItem>
      </SnapItem>
    </SnapList>
  );
};
```

## Options

### SnapList

- `direction` { horizontal | vertical }: Scroll direction. \*
- `disableScroll` { boolean | undefined }: Disable the native scroll on swipe or mouse wheel.
- `width` { string | undefined }: Width CSS property
- `height` { string | undefined }: Height CSS property
- `scrollPadding` { {
  top?: string;
  right?: string;
  bottom?: string;
  left?: string;
  } | undefined }: Use this to configure the space to see from the previous/next hidden element. See <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/scroll-padding" target="_blank">scroll-padding</a> for more information
- `ref` { React.RefObject\<HTMLDivElement\> | undefined }: The React.ref to the element required by the hooks.
- `className` { string | undefined }: 🚑Please, use this only in case of emergency. It allows you to add/overwrite/extend all the CSS properties. If you need this, please consider opening an issue or contribute with a PR to cover your use case.

\* _Required fields_

### SnapItem

- `snapAlign` { start | center | end | none }: The box’s snap position when the scroll stops. See <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/scroll-snap-align" target="_blank">scroll-snap-align</a> for more information \*
- `disableScroll` { boolean | undefined }: Avoid the scroll to "pass over" possible snap positions. See <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/scroll-snap-stop" target="_blank">scroll-snap-stop</a> for more information
- `width` { string | undefined }: Width CSS property
- `height` { string | undefined }: Height CSS property
- `margin` { {
  top?: string;
  right?: string;
  bottom?: string;
  left?: string;
  } | undefined }: The margin is used to set the separation between the items. You can use different margin for the first and last item to get better results.
- `className` { string | undefined }: 🚑Please, use this only in case of emergency. It allows you to add/overwrite/extend all the CSS properties. If you need this, please consider opening an issue or contribute with a PR to cover your use case.

\* _Required fields_

### useScroll

```jsx
const snapList = useRef(null);
const goToElement = useScroll({ ref: snapList });

return (
  <SnapList ref={snapList}>
    <SnapItem snapAlign="left">
      <div onClick={() => goTo(0)}>Item 0</div>
    </SnapItem>
    <SnapItem snapAlign="left">
      <div onClick={() => goTo(1)}>Item 1</div>
    </SnapItem>
  </SnapList>
);
```

Response

- A function `(element:number) => void` to scroll to the element.

Arguments

- `ref`: { React.RefObject\<HTMLDivElement\> } \*

\* _Required fields_

### useVisibleElements

```jsx
const snapList = useRef(null);
const selected = useVisibleElements(
  { ref: snapList, debounce: 10 },
  elements => elements[0],
);
const goToElement = useScroll({ ref: snapList });

return (
  <SnapList ref={snapList}>
    <SnapItem snapAlign="left">
      <div
        onClick={() => goToElement(0)}
        style={{
          backgroundColor: selected === 0 ? 'papayawhip' : null,
        }}
      >
        Item 0
      </div>
    </SnapItem>
    <SnapItem snapAlign="left">
      <div
        onClick={() => goToElement(1)}
        style={{
          backgroundColor: selected === 1 ? 'papayawhip' : null,
        }}
      >
        Item 1
      </div>
    </SnapItem>
  </SnapList>
);
```

Arguments

- `ref`: { React.RefObject\<HTMLDivElement\> } \*
- `debounce`: { number }. Optional (default 10). The time that the scroll is stopped before firing the visible elements check.
- `selectorFunction`: { (element:number[], elementInCenter: number | null) => any }. This selector gets an array of the visible elements as an argument and the return value will be returned by the useVisibleElements. Use this function to add some logic like select only the first one, calculate if there hidden elements before or later, etc... \*

\* _Required fields_

Tip

Use many times `useVisibleElements` hook with different `debounce` values for different purposes. For instance with a SnapList to select one option, one with debounce 10 for the slider dots animation or the selected option background and another one with debounce 100 to fire a select sideEffect.

### useDragToScroll

> Thanks <a href="https://github.com/danieljb" target="_blank">@danieljb</a> for the contribution

```jsx
const snapList = useRef(null);
const selected = useVisibleElements(
  { ref: snapList, debounce: 10 },
  elements => elements[0],
);

const isDragging = useDragToScroll({ref: snapList, disable: false});

return (
  <>
  <p>{isDragging ? 'Dragging': 'No dragging}</p>
  <SnapList ref={snapList}>
    <SnapItem snapAlign="left">
      <div
        onClick={() => goToElement(0)}
        style={{
          backgroundColor: selected === 0 ? 'papayawhip' : null,
        }}
      >
        Item 0
      </div>
    </SnapItem>
    <SnapItem snapAlign="left">
      <div
        onClick={() => goToElement(1)}
        style={{
          backgroundColor: selected === 1 ? 'papayawhip' : null,
        }}
      >
        Item 1
      </div>
    </SnapItem>
  </SnapList>
  </p>
);
```

Arguments

- `ref`: { React.RefObject\<HTMLDivElement\> } \*
- `disable`: { booleal }. Optional (default false). The hook will be auto-disabled on touch devices but you can force it using this option.

\* _Required fields_

### isTouchDevice

This an internal util function used by `useDragToScroll` that can be useful for you. You can use it to modify your UI depending on the device. For example, you can show next/previous arrows only on no touch devices.

## Do you want to contribute?

- You can give a star to the project to help with the reputation
- You can share it with your colleagues.
- You can fork the repository and make your PR contribution.
- You can explore using IntersectionObserver for the useVisible hook.
- You can explore with better scrollTo polyfills.
- You can create usefull extra elements like Dots, Thumbnails, Progress or Arrows.
- You can create a new demo example, sky is the limit!
- Yes, you can.

## Changelog

### Version 3

- Added useDragToScroll
- Added util isTouchDevice
- Improved useScroll. Now uses the scrollPading to calculate the position of the elements.
- **Breakchange** the SnapItem elements now uses margin in favor of padding. The browser native behavior works better works better.

## License

MIT © [luispuig](https://github.com/luispuig)
